We welcome all of you
to the June 2020 edition
of JW Broadcasting®!
The 148th class
of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead
graduated on March 14, 2020.
This was the exciting culmination
of five months
of intensive Bible instruction
for the students.
What parting words of encouragement
would they receive
from the Governing Body and other brothers?
We’re very happy to share with you
the first part of that graduation program.
Enjoy!
The theme of my opening talk
to you dear Gilead students,
and really for all of us,
is “Imitate Jesus’ Modesty.”
Now, first we ask,
What is modesty?
Well, a common definition
found in our publications is
‘being aware of our own limitations.’
And Jesus, of course, set a perfect example
in always being aware
of his own limitations.
Undoubtedly, Jesus was very familiar
with Jehovah’s thinking on this quality,
such as is expressed at Micah 6:8,
which was written about 700 years
before Jesus came to the earth.
So he certainly would have been
familiar with this.
But, if you recall, the question is asked,
“What is Jehovah requiring of you?”
And then part of the answer is
“to walk in modesty with your God!”
And there’s an exclamation point
after that expression.
Jehovah would not just like to see it in us;
he’s requiring it.
What is Jehovah requiring of you?
Jesus knew it was not optional,
but a requirement,
that we be modest in walking with our God.
Now, since Jesus
is our perfect role model,
let’s discuss four areas
in which we can imitate his modesty.
And we know
that’ll be helpful to you dear students
—really, for all of us.
Number one, Jesus was always aware
that he had authority limitations.
Now, you remember
the account in Matthew chapter 20,
when James and John tried to use their mother
to get some special positions
in the Kingdom for them.
And remember, they had her say to Jesus:
“Give the word that these two sons
of mine may sit down,
“one at your right hand and one at your left,
in your Kingdom.”
Remember that?
But what was Jesus’ answer?
“To sit down
at my right hand and my left
“is not mine to give,
“but it belongs to those
for whom it has been prepared by my Father.”
Now, that’s interesting.
Jesus gave many gifts, didn’t he?
He gave a lot of wine
to a newly married couple
at their wedding feast.
He gave the gift of healing
to thousands, probably.
He fed thousands; he gave them food.
He gave a widow her son back after he died.
But Jesus knew to give away
the second and third
highest positions in the Kingdom
was beyond the scope of his authority.
And he acknowledged that very clearly,
didn’t he?
Well, that’s a fine lesson for us, isn’t it?
There are many things
that are within the scope of our authority,
and we can go ahead
and take the initiative and do those things.
But there are many other things
that are outside the scope of our authority.
For example, you wives,
you know there are many things in the family
that have to be decided by the husband
—not within your authority.
You brothers know there are many decisions
that are made in the congregation
that can’t be made by you;
it must be made by the body of elders.
We all know that in our Bethel department
there are many things
that require permission from our overseer.
If some of you brothers here in the class
end up later serving on Branch Committees,
then you’ll need to clearly learn
the parameters of your authority
—what you can handle and what really needs
to be handled by the Branch Committee
or maybe even taken
to the Governing Body.
In areas such as the foregoing,
all of us need to carefully learn
what falls within our authority
and what falls outside of our authority.
And if we’re in doubt,
it’s better to check, isn’t it?
It’s better to check if we’re in doubt.
We don’t have the attitude
that it’s easier to get
forgiveness than permission.
That’s not a good attitude, is it?
Now, another aspect
of Jesus having authority limitations—
Open up to John chapter 12,
and here’s an interesting thought
that Jesus made.
John 12:49
—he said:
“For I have not spoken
“of my own initiative,
“but the Father who sent me
“has himself given me a commandment
about what to say and what to speak.”
Now, you could say according to that
that Jesus had
speaking-authority limitations, didn’t he?
He had no authority to go
beyond what his Father had taught him.
He had no authority to teach others things
that originated in his own mind and heart.
He wouldn’t go beyond that.
He had authority limitations.
Well, even more so,
shouldn’t that be true of us?
We have no authority
to give our opinions on matters,
but we have to make sure when we speak
that what we say
is solidly based on the Scriptures
and what’s been provided
by the faithful slave.
But now let’s go to our second area
where we can learn modesty from Jesus:
He always remembered
his lesser importance
compared
to Jehovah’s much greater importance.
How unlike Satan the Devil!
Now, you could say he has
not one modest bone in his spirit body,
figuratively speaking, of course
—no modesty in Satan the Devil.
Jesus refused to accept titles
that belonged to Jehovah.
“Why do you call me good?
Nobody is good except one, God.”
He always gave the credit
—the glory—to Jehovah.
He said: “The Son cannot do
a single thing of his own initiative,
but only what he sees the Father doing.”
He never boasted.
He was always willing
to put Jehovah’s will ahead of his own will.
He made the comment:
“Father, if it is not possible
“for this to pass away unless I drink it,
let your will take place.”
And think about this:
He never tried to draw attention to himself
by means of high-sounding vocabulary
or even by means of his dress and grooming.
See, if he would have had
some unusual dress or grooming,
would Judas have needed to kiss him
to identify which one he was?
He could’ve said,
“The one you’re looking for
is the only one in the group
wearing a bright purple robe,”
or “He’s the only one in the group
that has a handlebar mustache.”
He wouldn’t have had to kiss him
to identify him.
And if you look at the pictures
in our publications
with Jesus and the Twelve,
it would be hard to describe
which one he was.
He modestly blended in
with all of the others.
Now, what a fine example for us!
When others try to praise us,
including our Bible students,
we should modestly redirect that praise
to where it belongs.
We should always give credit to Jehovah
for what we accomplish.
I mean, we accomplish it,
but we give Jehovah the credit.
First Corinthians 4:7:
“What do you have that you did not receive?
“If, in fact, you did receive it,
why do you boast
as though you did not receive it?”
And in harmony (or in the same vein)
with that scripture,
we try hard not to boast,
remembering Proverbs 27:2:
“Let someone else praise you,
and not your own mouth.”
We do our best
to put Jehovah’s preferences
ahead of our own preferences.
We endeavor not to draw
attention to ourselves
by high-sounding vocabulary
or even immodest dress and grooming.
But now let’s go to a third area
where we can learn modesty from Jesus:
He knew there were some things
he was not entitled to know,
at least not at the time.
Open up to Matthew chapter 24, please.
And we’re familiar with this scripture,
but at Matthew 24:36,
notice Jesus’ words:
“Concerning that day
and hour nobody knows,
“neither the angels of the heavens
“nor the Son,
but only the Father.”
Now, think about it, if Jesus was content
with having knowledge limitations
concerning confidential things,
then even more so
shouldn’t that be the case with us?
We should strive very hard
not to ever try to get to know
confidential things
we’re not entitled to know.
And we certainly shouldn’t reveal
confidential things.
And what a protection it is!
I was thinking,
for you dear wives of elders,
if someone asked you
about a certain confidential matter,
“Do you know anything about this?”
Now, if you know, which you shouldn’t,
it’s very awkward, isn’t it?
You either have to be untruthful
or you have to reveal that your husband
didn’t keep confidentiality.
But if you don’t know,
as should be the case,
now with a clear conscience
you can answer that question
with a resounding no.
“No, I do not know anything about that.”
You dear elders would not try to obtain
confidential information
in the congregation
or at Bethel you’re not entitled to know.
Like Jesus,
all of us should be content
to wait for information
to be revealed to us
at the proper time.
And if you think about it, in some cases,
it may mean that we will have to be content
to never know certain things.
Now, let’s get to our last area,
this fourth area
we can learn modesty from Jesus,
and that is:
He was always aware
of his need to fully rely on Jehovah.
Even though he was perfect,
he did not rely on his own strength.
Open, please, to Hebrews chapter 5.
This is a beautiful scripture
about this perfect Son of God
—what is said about him.
Hebrews 5:7:
“During his life on earth,
“Christ offered up supplications
“and also petitions,
“[and notice] with strong outcries
“and tears,
“to the One who was able
to save him out of death,
and he was favorably heard
for his godly fear.”
Now, isn’t that interesting?
“During his life on earth”
(and it didn’t say
just a few times or one or two times)
—during his life,
he petitioned, and it’s plural.
And he gave supplication, again plural.
And what were the intensities
of those supplications and petitions?
“With strong outcries and tears”
he called for help from Jehovah,
and Jehovah heard him.
I mean,
if you think of the word “outcry,”
that means “a cry out loud”
—doesn’t it?—
a strong outcry,
a very loud cry out loud.
And then you add tears to that.
It really indicates the intensity
—how he really called
on Jehovah to help him.
That’s an interesting thought, isn’t it?
Additionally,
when Jehovah sent
Jesus’ younger angelic brothers
to come and help him in times of need,
he didn’t say:
“Well, I don’t need help.
[pridefully] I’m OK. I’ve got this.”
No, he knew he needed help.
And he graciously accepted it
and appreciated that help.
Think about this:
Even with Jehovah’s help,
he was modestly realistic
of what he expected of himself.
Have you ever thought about that?
With Jehovah’s help,
he was still modestly realistic
that he could only accomplish so much.
As an example,
during his three-and-a-half-year ministry,
he knew there were only so many
he could reach—only so many people.
So, wisely, what did he do?
He modestly trained and entrusted others
to do the preaching work
and even said about them
as recorded at John 14:12
that they would ‘do works
greater  than his works.’
They would reach
a greater number of people,
a greater area,
a greater period of time.
Now, think about this,
if the perfect Son of God
feared to rely on his own strength,
we should be scared to death to do that.
We do not rely on our own strength.
Never should we pridefully hold back
from supplicating and petitioning Jehovah
with strong outcries and tears.
May we modestly accept
the help Jehovah provides
through our brothers and sisters.
May we be modestly realistic
of even what we expect of ourselves.
If we imitate Jesus’ modesty,
these four areas we’ve discussed,
what a protection it will be!
It will protect us
from many snares of the Devil.
But now we’ll turn our attention
to Brother Geoffrey Jackson
of the Governing Body,
and he will develop an intriguing theme.
His theme is
“Accept the Unexpected.”
—Brother Jackson.
Expect the unexpected.
Well, the unexpected
has arrived, hasn’t it?
None of us expected
that this graduation program
would need to be modified
and changed as it is.
And yet, what have you had to do?
You’ve had to accept the unexpected.
There’s not much you can do.
And we’d like to commend you students,
soon-to-be graduates of this class of Gilead,
because you have accepted these changes
in a fine, positive attitude.
But it does highlight to us
—doesn’t it?—
that sometimes it can be disappointing
when unexpected things occur.
Now soon, you’ll be going
to your assignments,
whether back home or to a new assignment.
And, no doubt, you are going to face
some unexpected things as well.
And we’d just like to discuss
one aspect of this theme.
If you’d like to take your Bibles
and turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 10,
Ecclesiastes 10:7,
and here it describes something
that is unexpected:
“I have seen servants on horseback
but princes walking
on foot just like servants.”
Well, you wouldn’t expect
to see that, would you?
Now, how are you going to see that?
Well, The Watchtower
made a very interesting comment
about this verse that said:
“Those who have great ability
“do not always receive the recognition.
“And those with less ability
sometimes receive more honor.”
So when you arrive back full of enthusiasm
—you’ve enjoyed your Gilead training,
and no doubt you’re thinking:
‘I’m a different person. I’ve changed.’
And we hope you have.
Maybe you might expect
that there will be
certain privileges granted to you.
And yet, at the same time,
you may see that someone you don’t expect
is given those privileges.
They may even come up
to you and say: “I’m so surprised!
I’m shocked they’ve given me this privilege!”
And outwardly you say, “Hmm,”
but inwardly you’re saying: “I’m shocked too,
“because I’m the one
who is trained at Gilead.
Surely I should get this privilege.”
But when you think about it,
remember that Jehovah is the one
who is backing the work, and at times,
he does the unexpected and, in this case,
gives someone we don’t expect a privilege.
Think about it for a few moments.
When you first came here,
we know and remember your introductions,
and quite a number of you made the comment:
“When we received that invitation
to Gilead, we were shocked!
“We were humbled.
“We were amazed, numb all over,
thinking why we were selected.”
And maybe some of the people
in your congregation and branch
were also saying,
“Why were they accepted?”
You see, maybe
that was an unexpected invitation.
But now, here you are about to graduate.
But it’s good to remember
that sometimes others are surprised
about privileges that we’re given.
So, what can help us to accept the unexpected
when it comes to others getting privileges?
Well, let’s look at two principles
in the Scriptures.
The first one is at Ecclesiastes 6:9,
Ecclesiastes 6:9:
“Better to enjoy what the eyes see
“than to wander after one’s desires.
This too is futility,
a chasing after the wind.”
So, in other words, be satisfied
with the privileges you do have.
Don’t be looking for other privileges,
just not satisfied
with what you’ve already been given.
Treasure the privileges you already have.
Included in that is the privilege
of coming here to Gilead and being trained.
Now, the second principle
we’d like to highlight
is found in the book of Psalms,
Psalm 119:31, 32:
“I cling to your reminders.
“O Jehovah, do not let me be disappointed.
“I will eagerly pursue the way
of your commandments
because you make room for it in my heart.”
What’s the point?
Don’t be disappointed.
Trust in Jehovah.
Trust in his arrangement.
It could be that Jehovah is saying to you:
‘Look, you’ve already had enough privileges.
‘You went to Gilead, remember?
‘Now be happy that I’m letting someone else
have an unexpected privilege.’
Well, that can be a test.
Another thing that will help us
in a situation like that
is to remember many
of the accounts in the Scriptures.
And one of those we like to refer to briefly
is that of David killing Goliath.
Let’s think for a few moments.
If you were an Israelite soldier
just before David offered himself
to do this assignment,
who would you have expected
to take down this giant, Goliath?
Well, probably, first of all,
you would have thought about King Saul
because, after all,
he was head and shoulders taller
than the average person
and he was a man experienced in warfare.
So you might have expected,
‘I think King Saul is the one
who will take this on.’
Or maybe if you
weren’t thinking of King Saul,
you might be thinking of his son Jonathan.
Why?
Well, remember Jonathan
was a national hero by this time.
There was the case there at Michmash,
where he and his attendant climbed up
and boldly and bravely
appeared before the Philistines.
They killed about 20 of them,
and that was the turning point in the battle.
So if anyone is going to take on Goliath,
probably you would expect
that Jonathan would be able to do that.
Now, let’s just assume
that you were thinking,
‘Maybe the best way to do this
would be with a sling and a stone.’
So now, who would you expect
to actually do this?
Probably Saul and Jonathan.
Why?
They were from the tribe of Benjamin.
And what do you remember
about the people from Benjamin?
They were experts with using the sling.
In fact, we’re told they could sling a stone
to a hairbreadth and would not miss.
And in fact, at 1 Chronicles 12:2,
it says that the brothers of Saul
were experts with the sling.
So not knowing what Jehovah was going to do,
probably each one of us,
if we were there back then,
would have thought that surely
it would be King Saul or maybe Jonathan.
They were the most qualified.
But why wouldn’t you have expected David?
Well, for a start, David was just a boy.
He wasn’t a soldier.
He didn’t have experience in warfare.
Yes, he’d killed a lion and a bear,
but he really didn’t know
about fighting people in a war.
Second, he wasn’t impressive in appearance.
In fact, Goliath was shocked
when he saw this young man
coming toward him.
And third, he wasn’t
from the tribe of Benjamin.
You see, he wasn’t one of these
famous persons who could use the sling.
The Watchtower  made the comment
that perhaps because David lived near
where the tribe of Benjamin was,
maybe that’s where he learned
how to use the sling.
But the bottom line is
none of us would have expected
that this young man David
would have been used.
It was an unexpected event.
But now, let’s think for a moment
about how others reacted.
How did King Saul react?
Well, initially, King Saul was very happy
with the fact that David killed Goliath.
But what happened later?
That turned into jealousy
—didn’t it?—
even into a murderous desire to kill David.
But, on the other hand, what about Jonathan?
You see, Jonathan perhaps
could have been jealous, but he wasn’t.
He built a strong relationship
and friendship with David.
So, what can we learn from this account?
You see, if you come across someone
who gets that ideal privilege
—that assignment
that you always secretly have wanted
and that you
actually modestly think you deserve—
what will you be?
a Saul or a Jonathan?
Yes, brothers and sisters,
let’s always remember
that Jehovah does the unexpected,
and sometimes the unexpected is
giving someone else you don’t expect
a certain privilege.
Don’t stand in the way of Jehovah
when he uses someone else
to glorify his name.
Yes, rejoice in the fact
that others are used,
just like you are being used,
in an unexpected way.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Jackson,
for living up to our expectations.
You gave, again, an excellent talk.
We really appreciate it.
But now we’re going to get to turn
our attention to Brother James Mantz,
who serves as a helper
to the Writing Committee,
and he has an interesting theme,
“Do Privileges Make You Privileged?”
Let me say that again.
—Brother Mantz.
Before coming to Gilead,
all of you students enjoyed
many privileges of service.
Maybe you served as a regular pioneer,
as a special pioneer,
as a construction worker,
or as a field missionary.
You may have served
in the circuit work or at Bethel,
and now you’ve enjoyed
the additional privilege
of having five months of intensive training
here at Gilead School.
And no doubt all of you have appreciated
the fine direction you’ve received.
Proverbs 28:20 says
that “a faithful man
will receive many blessings.”
And no doubt all of you students
feel richly blessed here
on your graduation day.
We’re very happy for you,
and we’re certainly confident
that there are many more blessings
and privileges that await you
as you go on to your assignments.
But before you go,
I’d just like to ask one question:
Do privileges make you privileged?
We ask this question
because the answer will help you
to have a proper view of your Gilead training
and also whatever privileges you may receive
as you go on to your assignment.
And the answer will also help all of us
to show modesty and humility
in whatever assignment
Jehovah sees fit to give us.
So do privileges make us privileged?
The simple answer is no.
But in some languages,
the word “privilege”
can carry the wrong idea.
For example, in English,
“privilege” carries the meaning
of entitlement.
We may speak of a privileged class
—people who because of their birth
or because of their wealth
have a higher place in society than others.
A privilege that we receive
in Jehovah’s organization
could even be misunderstood
as something given to us
because we’re special
or even better than others.
The possibility of misunderstanding
what is meant by the word “privilege”
is even more pronounced in other languages.
For example, in Japanese, for many years,
we used the word tokken
to translate the word “privilege.”
And if you look in the dictionary,
that’s the word that you should use.
But many of us in the Japanese field
felt a little bit uncomfortable using tokken
because that word is formed
by combining two Chinese characters:
toku  means “special,”
and ken  means “right.”
So literally that would mean
you have a special right
to attend Gilead School.
I have a special right to serve at Bethel.
But we know that is not the case.
So you can imagine our delight
when we received study article 35
in the September 2019 issue
of The Watchtower.
It was entitled
“Jehovah Values His Humble Servants.”
And in a section that was discussing the need
for humility when others
receive privileges of service,
the Japanese translators
applied the principle
of meaning-based translation.
Instead of using the dictionary meaning
and calling the privileges special rights,
they call them hoshinokikai
—opportunities to serve.
We were elated.
Privileges are not given as a special right.
Rather, they give us additional opportunities
to be of service
to Jehovah and to our brothers.
So does that mean
we should stop using the word “privilege”?
Not necessarily.
But we do need
to have a correct understanding
of its meaning in the spiritual setting.
One way to gain a proper understanding
is to examine how the word “privilege”
is used in the New World Translation.
For example, at Luke 1:43,
Elizabeth described a visit from Mary,
the mother of her Lord, as a “privilege.”
Now, did Elizabeth mean
that she had a special right
to have Mary enter her home?
No.
Rather, she viewed the visit
as a blessing from Jehovah.
Acts 7:46 speaks of David
asking God “for the privilege of providing
a dwelling place for the God of Jacob.”
And at 2 Corinthians 8:4,
Paul spoke of Christians
who ‘kept earnestly begging us
‘for the privilege of having a share
in the relief ministry for the holy ones.’
David and Paul were not talking
about any special right.
Rather, they were describing an opportunity
to work in service to Jehovah
and to their brothers.
So let’s not be misled by the meaning
that the world generally attaches
to the word “privilege.”
The direction found
at Luke 17:10 will help us.
Please open to that verse.
And whenever we receive a privilege,
or an opportunity to serve,
let’s remember these words
and this counsel of Jesus
—Luke 17:10.
He said: “Likewise, when you
have done all the things assigned to you,
“say: ‘We are good-for-nothing slaves.
What we have done
is what we ought to have done.’”
Now, of course, this doesn’t mean
that we should view ourselves
as useless, or worthless.
A note in the Study Bible  explains
that ‘according to the context,
‘“good-for-nothing” conveys the idea
‘that the slave would view himself modestly,
not as deserving
of some special credit or praise.’
And that is how we view ourselves
when we receive privileges of service.
Now let’s consider
another aspect of privileges.
The English dictionary defines privilege
as “a right attached specifically
to a position or office.”
However, not all privileges of service
involve a specific assignment or a position.
The number of positions
in Jehovah’s organization is limited.
The opportunities to serve are endless.
Please open to Matthew chapter 20;
we’ll read verses 25 to 27
because here Jesus clarified the importance
of serving over position.
Now, Brother Lett
already explained the setting:
It’s when the mother of James and John
asked Jesus to give her sons
special positions in the Kingdom.
In verses 25 to 27,
this is what Jesus said:
“But Jesus called them to him and said:
“‘You know that the rulers of the nations
“‘lord it over them and the great men
wield authority over them.
“‘This must not be the way among you;
“‘but whoever wants to become great
among you must be your minister,
and whoever wants to be first among you
must be your slave.’”
Yes, instead of seeking
a high position of authority,
Christians reach out to minister
to the needs of others
—to serve as humble slaves.
Interestingly, 1 Timothy 3:1
used to describe a man
who “is reaching out
for an office of overseer.”
But the revised edition
of The New World Translation  reads:
“If a man is reaching out to be an overseer,
he is desirous of a fine work.”
This puts the emphasis
not on the office or position
but on the qualifications
that are needed by one
who exerts himself
to be of service to others.
There are many opportunities of service
that do not involve
a special appointment or position.
Think of Bible examples
of hardworking Christian men and women.
Dorcas “abounded
in good deeds and gifts of mercy”;
Joanna, Susanna, and many other women
ministered to Jesus from their belongings;
and while Paul was in prison,
Tychicus served as his personal messenger;
Mark helped Paul in practical ways,
perhaps delivering food to him.
So as you go on to your assignment,
remember,
privileges do not make you privileged
and whether your privileges come
with an official assignment or not,
humbly carry them out
as opportunities to “slave for Jehovah”
and to serve our brothers more fully.
I’m going to bring all these Gilead students
on my speaking assignments.
They really know how to applaud.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Mantz,
for the “privilege” of hearing that talk.
But please be assured
we’re not going to let that privilege
make us feel privileged
in the sense you discussed.
Really, these privileges,
as you mentioned,
are undeserved kindnesses from Jehovah.
But now we turn our attention
to Brother James Cauthon,
one of our Gilead instructors.
And he spent a lot of time with you dear ones
during the last five months.
You’ve gotten to know each other quite well,
but he’ll only have
one more chance to talk to you.
And he’s going to speak
on the intriguing theme
“In the Shadows.”
We’ll be interested to see
how he develops that.
He wasn’t the most extraordinary
among the apostles.
For example, he didn’t walk on water.
He didn’t receive “the keys of the Kingdom.”
He wasn’t one of the “Sons of Thunder.”
He didn’t see the transfiguration.
He didn’t write a Bible book.
In fact, all together
he’s only mentioned 12 times
in the Scriptures,
and that’s mostly
when the list of all the apostles is given.
Who are we talking about?
That would be Andrew.
See,
Andrew was best known
as the brother of Peter.
That’s what he was famous for primarily.
Peter is mentioned
some 150 times in the Scriptures.
And it seems that Peter
was always in the limelight,
whereas Andrew
always seemed to be in the shadows.
Peter was extraordinary;
Andrew was ordinary.
Like Andrew,
most of us view ourselves
as just ordinary.
We’re not the valedictorian.
We’re not the greatest speaker.
We’re not “Miss Congeniality.”
We’re just in the shadows.
But is that how Jehovah sees us?
Is that how he saw Andrew?
Let’s look at Andrew the person
for just a minute.
Open your Bibles, if you would,
to John chapter 1, please,
John chapter 1.
And if you begin just following
along with me in verse 35,
we see that Andrew
was a disciple of John the Baptizer.
And one day
when he was with John the Baptizer
and John said:
“See, the Lamb of God!”
what is it that Andrew did immediately?
He immediately left following John
to follow Jesus.
Now, we don’t have a lot of time
for this talk,
but what is it—?
What did Jehovah see in Andrew at that point?
He must have seen
that Andrew wanted to draw close to God
and that he would be adaptable
and that he would be willing to change
in order to be able to draw closer to Jehovah
and do his will.
Jehovah must have loved Andrew
for that attitude.
If you follow along in verses 38 and 39,
notice that it says:
‘Then Jesus turned,
and saw them following him.’
And do you notice what Jesus said?
He said:
“What are you looking for?”
Now, how did Andrew respond to that?
Did Andrew say:
‘Well, you know, Lord,
‘I’d like to have a better assignment,
‘something that brings a little prestige,
maybe some accolades.
‘And along with that,
if I had a bigger room,
one with a view . . . ’?
But he didn’t.
What he said was:
‘Lord, where are you staying?’
And the Bible shows us
that Andrew then went with Jesus
and stayed with him
till about four o’clock in the afternoon.
Now, that was interesting
because he was really showing
that he valued spiritual things
over the mundane things.
But then after that time,
verses 40 and 41 say
that Andrew ran to find his brother Peter.
And he said five words
—five words
that would change their lives forever:
“We have found the Messiah.”
Now, how did Andrew know that?
Well, Andrew must have been
a man who loved God’s Word.
He must have been familiar with it.
And so in that time that he was with Jesus,
he could take
what he’d read in the Scriptures
and compare them
with the man in front of him,
and he came to that conclusion.
He was a spiritual man.
He loved God’s Word.
And as a result of his zeal,
he brought his brother Peter to Jesus.
Well, now, that’s a little bit
about what we know about Andrew the person.
What about Andrew the apostle?
Well, let’s go over to John chapter 6 now,
John chapter 6,
and we’ll look at verses 40 and 41.
Oh, excuse me, John 6:5-9,
and here we see a large crowd of people now
that are gathering to see Jesus,
and Jesus wants to feed them.
You remember the account.
And so he says to Philip:
‘You know, I want to feed these people.’
Philip says:
‘Lord, that’s impossible.
Two hundred denarii wouldn’t feed them all.’
So there were probably
over 5,000 people there.
But now, while he, Philip,
is talking to Jesus,
trying to reason with him,
what is Andrew doing?
Andrew goes through the crowd,
he finds a little boy that has
some fish and some bread,
and he brings that little child to Jesus.
Now, did Andrew have any idea
what Jesus was going to do?
He couldn’t have known.
There’s no way he could have known.
But he must have thought—
He must have seen enough
to know that Jesus could do something,
and, of course, he did.
But what was the lesson?
Well, while Philip saw the problem,
Andrew was looking for a solution.
And you may notice again that as usual
Andrew is bringing people to Jesus.
Just as a side point,
what do you think
that little boy would be talking about
when he became my age,
yeah, after that miracle he saw?
It must have really been an impactful one.
Now, let’s go to John chapter 12,
John chapter 12,
and look down at verses 20 through 22
because now we have a group of Greeks
who come to worship at the festival.
And they approach Philip,
and what do they want to do?
They want to see Jesus.
What does Philip do?
Philip goes to Andrew.
What does Andrew do?
Andrew takes Philip,
and they go to Jesus.
Now, two things.
Number one:
Andrew recognized the channel.
He didn’t try to circumvent it.
He didn’t try to make the decision.
He recognized the channel.
And second,
Andrew was a friend
because now he would be a mentor to Philip
and teach him to go to the channel as well.
Well, the Bible doesn’t say much
about Andrew,
but we can see that Andrew
didn’t think it was all about him.
He always had the desire to help others.
So in this brief discussion,
is there anything really ordinary
about Andrew?
Not in Jehovah’s eyes.
So while it’s true
that Andrew never walked on water,
he never wrote a Bible book,
he also never denied Christ,
he never got his mom
to ask for special favors,
he was never known
for being a “doubting Andrew,”
and he never ever was called Satan,
he was a force for good
for those around him.
Now, the lessons for the class:
Be adaptable.
Be adaptable to the leanings
of Jehovah’s organization,
even if you don’t fully understand them.
Number two:
Don’t get tripped up by the desire
for the mundane things.
Remember the question
that Jesus asked Andrew:
“What are you looking for?”
That’s a good reset question for all of us
from time to time.
What are we looking for?
Number three:
Remember that Jehovah is not limited
in how he can work out problems.
Give him the chance to show
what he can do for you,
and you may find the answer comes
in some very unexpected ways.
And finally, in your assignment,
don’t be quick to pass over
the seemingly ordinary people.
Look for the “Andrews.”
They’re in all the congregations.
They’re in all the Bethels.
They’re like the hidden gems
that are all around us.
Acknowledge them;
encourage them;
see what they’re contributing,
and say something about it.
And those hidden gems
will begin to come out of the shadows,
and they will shine
in the light of appreciation.
So in the days to come,
be a steadying force for good.
Show loving kindness to all.
Give Jehovah your best,
and give the friends your best,
and give it with love.
And you will never ever be in the shadow
in Jehovah’s eyes.
Well, thank you very much.
We really appreciate that talk,
Brother Cauthon,
helping us all to be like Andrew.
We’re very happy
to serve quietly in the background
not striving to be in the limelight.
We really appreciate it
—very practical.
But now we’re going to turn
our attention to Brother Mark Noumair.
He’s a helper to the Teaching Committee
but also one of our Gilead instructors.
You spent a lot of time with him also.
But he has a booming theme,
“Will You Thunder for Jehovah?”
And now from Andrew to John
—the apostle John;
he was living at a most critical time
—the last surviving apostle.
He was helping to hold back
a tidal wave of worldly influence
and apostate thinking
that was already eroding
the Christian congregation.
Under divine inspiration,
John wrote
a most vigorous letter to his brothers.
We can still sense in him
that fiery enthusiasm
that earned him his name,
“Son of Thunder.”
And that letter, the letter
that we’re going to look at right now,
will show you
how you like John can thunder for Jehovah.
Well, how can you do that?
Let’s find out.
We’re going to open up now
to 1 John chapter 1.
We’re going to read verses 1 and 3,
and watch how John makes very clear
his objective right from the outset.
First John 1:1:
“That which was from the beginning,
“[now, the beginning was Christ Jesus
in his prehuman existence;
“he was the firstborn of all creation]
“which we have heard,
“which we have seen with our eyes,
which we have observed
and our hands have felt [him].”
And notice that John right away wants to grab
the attention of the brothers
and to say: ‘Look! We heard him.
‘We’ve seen him with our eyes.
We’ve observed him.
‘I’ve felt him. I touched him.
I laid my head in his chest.’
Did John even hear his heartbeat?
Well, the fact is
that these messages were so clear to John,
and he wanted to make it known.
Notice verse 3:
“That which we have seen and heard,”
again John repeats this.
‘His teachings, I saw them—I heard them.
I’m so convinced that God’s powers
are operating through him,’
that there in verse 3, John says:
“We are reporting also to you.”
‘I’m reporting this to you,’ John said.
John had such good reason to thunder.
He was a living link to Christ.
The brothers alive at that time
did not have the privilege that John had
to walk and to touch
and to be taught by Jesus personally.
But John did,
and he was so moved by these experiences
that he wanted to report
these real-life experiences about Christ.
But why?
To protect his brothers
—to protect his beloved brothers
from the false teachers at that time
who were trying to draw them
away from the truth.
You see, John spoke up against lies
that the apostates
and the other false teachers
were spreading in his day.
They were telling disgusting lies
about God and Jesus.
They craftily constructed speeches
designed to corrupt the teachings of Christ.
John knew that.
He felt it.
They even claimed to have
secret revelations and superior knowledge.
And they boasted that they were
the correctors of the apostles.
Liars!
And John could not stomach liars.
And it is of interest:
Out of the 15 times
the Bible used the word “liar,”
he used the word eight times.
You see, John continued to thunder, defend,
and speak out for the truth
because he loved the truth,
he loved Christ Jesus,
and he loved the Father, Jehovah.
Similarly today,
lies and false reports
against the truth abound.
And enemies of the truth use any means
to try to smear
the reputation of Christ’s brothers.
But, now, what’s the point?
Your time here at world headquarters,
your time with the Governing Body,
your time with the responsible brothers
from world headquarters
convinces you firsthand
that any negative reports that you hear
about the organization are lies.
And now you can thunder for Jehovah
by defending the truth
about those whom Christ appointed
to take the lead in his organization.
And look what you’ve been able to do.
You can say just like John:
‘Look, I’ve heard. I’ve seen.
‘I’ve observed. I’ve felt.
That is me.
I’ve had a close-up view.’
This is an even closer look
than you can have on JW Broadcasting.
This is one-on-one in the flesh.
And you can say:
‘I’ve had a close-up view
of God’s spirit-directed organization.
‘And now I am reporting to you,
my beloved brothers and sisters,’
in the assignments that you have.
That’s what you can do now
—‘what I’ve seen and I’ve heard.’
And, in this way,
imagine what you can do
to strengthen, stabilize,
and build confidence in your brothers!
This is your responsibility now.
This wasn’t coming here to school
just to have a good time.
I know you did have a good time,
but that wasn’t the objective.
The objective is now that you go out
and you serve your brothers
—all of you, each and every one of you,
brother, sister,
single, married; it doesn’t matter.
Your brothers and sisters now deserve
a Gilead graduate’s reward.
And you’re going to give it to them.
And you thunder in doing that.
Now let’s go back to the apostle John.
John’s thunder never diminished
to a low rumble.
Think about it.
What did John do
when he was released from prison
on the island of Patmos
at nearly 100 years old?
What did he do?
I mean, did he say:
‘I’m a weak, old man.
There’s nothing I can do anymore’?
No, no, no.
You see, he knew the apostasy was coming
and that oppressive wolves
were already misleading the brothers.
But John said, ‘Not on my watch.’
And he would continue to thunder for Jehovah
by using every fiber of his being
to help his brothers
right down to his dying breath.
How did he do that?
He wrote four Bible books,
including the portion that we just read here
in 1 John chapter 1.
He didn’t retire.
He was still full of fiery enthusiasm,
wanting to help his brothers
because he loved the truth.
But what helped John
to keep the thunder rolling?
What helped him?
He knew the final outcome.
You see, in 96 C.E.
before his release,
he received that unexpected flash of light
—the Revelation,
a vision
of 144,000 Kingdom conquerors
who will rule with Jesus in heaven.
He got that.
Then he was told
about an integrity-keeping “great crowd
. . . out of all [the] nations”
that would worship God in truth.
He got that.
Can you imagine
how that strengthened his conviction?
In spite of the apostasy,
he said true worship
would not be extinguished.
So think about it.
If a prophetic vision of the great crowd
encouraged John to continue
to fight and defend the truth,
what about you
—you who see not a vision
but the reality of its fulfillment?
Now, John is seeing the reality from heaven
—true—
but you have a front-row seat
right here on earth
as you witness the greatest preaching effort
in history
and you watch Jehovah perform
a modern-day miracle
by gathering
‘a great crowd from all the nations.’
No matter what we face now
or in the future,
keep the thunder rolling.
Why?
Because you know the final outcome.
You see it already developing.
John continued to thunder for Jehovah,
but he mellowed
through the years of faithful service.
His fiery enthusiasm is now on display
in perfect balance.
A man who once wanted
to call down fire from heaven to get results
now uses a force much stronger
and more effective.
What is it?
Love.
In fact, at 1 John 2:14,
notice what he says here.
And just sense the love that he has
when he writes verse 14:
“I write you, fathers,
“because you have come to know him
who is from the beginning.
“I write you, young men,
because you are strong
“and the word of God remains in you
and you have conquered the wicked one.”
Can you sense the love?
John is saying,
‘Look, the word of God remains in you.’
He used the powerful force of love
to commend his readers
because they never lost
their heartfelt appreciation for the truth.
Can you see yourself doing that?
You see, thunder without love is just noise.
But be determined
to lovingly commend your brothers
for their endurance.
Thank them for their integrity.
Commend them for their unselfish love.
Touch their hearts when you speak with them.
Our brothers need encouragement,
not criticism.
Well, as I look at each one of you,
I have a lot of thoughts
going through my mind.
I do.
I mean, here you are—
I mean, all the memories
are flooding through my mind,
flooding through my heart.
It’s amazing as I look at you!
I can still hear your comments.
But you know what else I can hear?
I can hear each day (when you came to class)
how you thundered into that classroom.
You did.
We have never seen such a thunderous class.
There you were each morning
hugging each other,
clapping for the morning worship comments,
commending each other.
It’s as if you hadn’t seen each other
in three months;
it was just last night you saw each other.
But, oh no,
you thundered in appreciation
for divine truth
and for the privilege to be here at school
and for each other’s
integrity-keeping course.
Now, as you leave,
what do we want you to remember?
We want you to remember
how you can keep the thunder rolling.
How can you do that?
I’m going to give you three ways.
One, defend the truth.
Don’t allow false reports and lies
about the organization that you love
—the organization that you love and cherish,
the very organization
that brought you to these seats.
Never allow lies and false reports
to stop you
from reporting
what you have seen and heard firsthand.
Two, remember the final outcome.
True worship will prevail.
You already see it doing so.
And three, use the powerful force of love.
Use love to commend
and fortify your brothers.
Encourage them.
Build them up.
Use love.
And like John, with all your might,
with all your ability,
thunder for Jehovah.
That was thunderous applause.
You followed his theme right on through.
Very good.
And we really did appreciate that talk
helping us to be like the apostle John
and seeing how
he never lost his enthusiasm
but he balanced it
even more so in later years with love.
So we want to never lose our enthusiasm
—our love—
for Jehovah, Jesus,
the Kingdom,
and spiritual things.
What an inspiring program!
And there’s more to come!
Look for Parts 2 and 3 on jw.org®.
They’ll be released in the coming weeks.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.